[MUSIC]
In this lesson, this lecture will talk
about operating systems a little bit.
What an operating system is?
Now, they're not always present
in IoT devices and in fact with
the platforms we'll be working on, we'll
be working with Arduino and Raspberry Pi.
With Arduino you do not
have an operating system.
It's really too slow to support that.
But Raspberry Pi you do, typically.
So, we'll talk about the role
of an operating system and
an embedded system and an IoT device.
You may or may not need it.
So an operating system is an extra
layer in between the program,
your application code,
and the actual hardware.
So generally say we're working on right.
There's a user at the top,
whose using some application, right?
By application we mean the actual program,
right?
So you've compiled the program and that
application, that's the application code.
Do we know that application code would
connect directly to the hardware.
So it'd go straight from
the application to the hardware.
No operating system at all.
And the application directly
controls the hardware.
So it signals high and low, and so on.
But in say RetroPie or more complicated
IoT device, you would have something
like what you see here where
the user attacks the application.
The application code actually may not
directly connect to the hardware,
it communicates with the operating system.
So, it makes calls from the operating
system and it's requesting hardware
service and then the operating system
manages the hardware most directly.
So that's where an operating
system fits in, in the picture.
That the code that you write and
compile the application code, that
interfaces with the operating system and
the operating system deals with the
details of interacting with the hardware.
So it manages other programs.
So one thing about an operating system
is that it allows you to have not only
one application but many applications.
So you can run lots of different
applications at one time, and
the operating system itself
manages the hardware.
So it gives them turns,
lets them take turns, and stuff like that.
And you see this in standard operating
systems like Windows or in iOS or
something like that, you run typically
on a laptop, desktop you run
many programs at one time and the
operating system allows you to do that.
Right?
Without an operating system you can only
run one program at a time.
So, you can execute a lot of
programs together and when you're
executing them together remember that
they're not actually executing together,
they just seem like it.
So it's really alternating but very fast,
faster than a human would really notice.
So it looks like they're all
running at the same time.
A nice user interface so often,
now, how nice a user interface really
depends on the operating system.
If you look at a desktop or
a laptop Windows, iOS, Linux,
something like that,
they will have a very nice user interface.
Graphic user interface, GUI,
you can double-click on something.
Double-click on a file,
it'll open it up, that sort of thing.
That's a full-on operating system.
The operating systems that you find in
an IoT device, they're much smaller and
stripped back.
They're not going to have, not likely
to have any graphical user interface or
anything like that, but they will have
a user interface, a command line.
So if you ever use a Windows command line
prompt, or iOS you use a terminal window,
Linux you use a terminal window,
something like that,
I call that a nice user interface.
It's text-based, but
it's nicer than not having it.
So there's a user interface
that's provided of some kind.
And it needs processing power.
So one thing about operating systems
is that operating system itself
is a big program, right?
It's a big program that's
running in addition
to the actual programs that you
wanna run on your IoT device.
So, it's gonna consume clock cycles,
right?
There are some clock cycles that are spent
doing operating system tasks, right?
Some memory that's spent storing
the operating system data.
Things like this.
So, the operating system
itself takes up resources so
you have to make a decision
whether you need one or not.
Because it's gonna cost you resources,
which means cost you money.
It slows down the system because while
the processor is working on the operating
system, doing executing
the operating system code,
it can't be executing
your actual application.
So it slows things down.
And so as a result,
when you use an operating system,
you generally need a faster processor.
That's why, if you look at an Arduino
which is running at maybe eight megahertz,
something like that, usually don't
support an operating system with that.
But if you run Raspberry Pi and
you've got like one gigahertz,
then it's okay to support
an operating system,
because it has enough clock
cycles that you can do that.
A little example of an operating
system that actually I had a group
do something like this a project
like this several years ago.
Where they wanted to have
a control car with a camera.
So it's an RT car
controlled through the web.
So you can go to a laptop,
desktop whatever,
anything that has Wi-Fi, go to a phone.
Open up a browser and connect to the car.
And the car has on it a camera and
it's own web server, right?
So you can cancel this web server and
control the car to its own web server.
So as an interface, it looks roughly
like what you see down here.
On the one side, there's the picture,
the image, of what the car sees.
So that's actually coming
from the car's camera.
So like I said,
the car on it had a camera.
It was connected to a web service.
So, the view from that camera would be
streamed through Wi-Fi over to whatever
your browser device is, right?
Then, it would have buttons forward,
back, left, right, to control the car.
So you'd click forward,
it would move the car forward.
Click back and move back, and so on.
So you can take commands to drive the car,
through Wi-Fi, to the car's web server,
and that would directly control
the steering and the motors and all that.
So in a system like this,
it is useful to have an operating system
because there are so
many things going on at one time.
So the car is controlled over
the Internet, with Wi-Fi generally.
The car has its own web server
which has an actual URL address.
And the web interface allows
you to control the car and
see the images and so on.
Also has an auto brake feature
to avoid collision so,
it'll stop automatically regardless
of what your controls are.
If it sees, if it senses something
in front of it, it will stop.
But the idea that it generally has a lot
of tasks to do, a lot of things to do at
one time, in that type of situation
an operating system can be very useful.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]